---
title: "F1 PID #6 - Final Results in Local"
date: 2020-03-11T11:13:00-04:00
categories:
  - logbook
  - F1 PID
tags:
  - log
  - update
  - F1
---

In this last report we want to give evidence about the results as well as some final comments regarding the development of this PID algorithm for F1 car driving.

## Results

Below is a video of the algorithm applied to the Gazebo simulator running on a personal computer, i.e. without using the web interface. On the left you can see how the car is running on the track simulated in Gazebo by the Robotics Academy team, while on the right you can see the image that the car sees and the image resulting from the processing done by the algorithm. In the latter you can see the points of interest that the algorithm takes to calculate the error and the speed and angular velocity based on it. 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/poTXYaiKvdk?&autoplay=1" 
        height="197.5" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="display: flex; padding-bottom: 25px"></iframe>

It can be seen how the car makes a complete lap of the circuit in an estimated time of 45 seconds. The time could be less but this would lead to a much more unsafe driving and separated from the line so we have sought a balance between driving safety and accuracy following the line. It must be taken into account that the integral component of the error generates that the car, after long iterations, ends up separating from the line in one direction or another, that is to say, it will go in parallel but never totally centered. This is because the integral is implemented as the sum of all previous errors, which is not zero after long iterations and makes this error in one direction accumulate in each turn. Also this integral component manifests itself after the first iterations, which causes the car to take the first curve more abruptly at the beginning.

On the other hand, the parameters Kp, Kd and Ki are difficult to initialize since to achieve the results shown, values below hundredths have been needed, which is quite surprising at the beginning. This causes the Ki component to have an even lower value since it cannot be allowed to influence much because it affects the error accumulation.

## Comments

First of all I would like to point out that I think it is a perfect practice to introduce machine vision students into the field of robotics because the local environment is very intuitive and the programming interfaces are very clear and clean. On the other hand, I think that the local installation is complicated, having some errors with package versions and operating system.

## Next steps

Adaptation of the code to make it fully functional within Unibotics, i.e. on the web platform. Some additional changes may have to be made since the car does not capture the same image locally as on the web platform.