---
title: "3D Reconstruction #2 - Detect interest points and their homologues"
date: 2020-05-14T11:13:00-04:00
categories:
  - logbook
  - 3D Reconstruction
tags:
  - log
  - update
  - 3D
---

This section is intended to introduce the selection of points to be reconstructed. This is a very important task and will determine much of the speed of the algorithm. These points are often called points of interest.

## Points of interest

These points will be the ones selected on the source image to be reconstructed. For this purpose there are different algorithms of selection of characteristic points (FAST, SIFT...) that can be very useful for VisualSLAM algorithms. But in this case these algorithms select a number of points that make the reconstruction not clearly visible and for this task it is more important to have more reconstructed points than the time it takes to reconstruct the scene.
For this reason these algorithms were discarded and we thought of edge detectors to reconstruct only the edges of the objects and thus not lose so much processing speed. Among these are the gradient filters, Canny and the Hough transform. For this case Canny has been selected as it is the easiest to apply and provides the richest edge information. The result of this detector will be a mask where pixels belonging to edges will have a value different from 0 and vice versa.
The correct thing to do in this case would be to choose all pixels that do not belong to the background of the image but this would make a slower reconstruction.

## Counterpart points

Once the points of interest have been obtained, the homologous points in the other image will be obtained. To do this, the back projection rays of these points must be obtained, projected on the other image and the homologous point must be found on this projection. For this task a patch comparison and a distance measurement between patches is usually used. Following this technique, a window is slid over the epipolar line in search of the homologous point which will be the center of the patch with less distance from the patch in the source image.
This solution would work if the calculations and cameras were accurate, but this is not usually the case, so the back projection ray is not projected as a straight line, but as a fringe. All pixels in that strip will be processed with the sliding window allowing for approximation errors in the model. But we should not be too generous with the size of this strip because we can obtain as homologous point another point that does not meet the epipolar constraint (approximately) but that is very similar to the original patch.
During experimentation it has been observed that an epipolar fringe with a width equal to the window size is sufficient to find homologous points that meet the epipolar constraint. The fringe can be easily drawn with the function cv.line() which allows to define the width of the line.

### Next steps

In this way we obtain all the homologous points ready to proceed to triangulation. The following chapter will explain this process as well as the possible problems that can be encountered.
