---
title: "3D Reconstruction #4 - Results"
date: 2020-05-18T11:13:00-04:00
categories:
  - logbook
  - 3D Reconstruction
tags:
  - log
  - update
  - 3D
---

In this last episode we intend to show the results of applying the previous procedure to reconstruct the proposed scene as well as some conclusions and possible improvements of the proposed algorithm.

## Results

In the following video you can see how the algorithm reconstructs the scene although it does not place all the points correctly (it introduces noise in the scene) and this can occur for several reasons among which I think the most important are:
- **Lack of texture in the scene**: which makes it difficult to do a more accurate homologous point search since the patch comparison and the distance measurement used will be less determinant.
- **Error determining the width of the epipolar fringe**: which is closely related to the method of patch comparison and the error between cameras. This will be determinant depending on the problem to be solved.
On the other hand, I think that the algorithm is quite slow compared to faster solutions offered by OpenCV and other solutions that take advantage of the canonical position of the cameras. A possible optimization applicable to this algorithm is discussed below. 

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/6v8vi0bcSMI" 
        height="197.5" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="display: flex; padding-bottom: 25px"></iframe>
        
## Conclusions and possible improvements

It is a very useful problem to understand the projective camera model and stereo vision but I think it encapsulates too much mathematics and geometry since the problem would be more efficient and easier to solve if the possibility of accessing the intrinsic matrix of the camera and the extrinsic matrix were given. This would also allow teaching the calculation of the fundamental and essential matrix, which would have been very useful to solve this problem since it would make the triangulation task much more efficient. Also this would give rise to the application of other techniques such as image rectification.
On the other hand I believe that this algorithm can improve its efficiency a lot if parallelism is introduced as it would allow to estimate points in parallel. This could be easily achieved with libraries like Numba. And consequently this would give way to be able to estimate more points and have a more complete reconstruction.
