---
title: "Robotics Academy and problem statement"
date: 2020-03-03T10:39:00-04:00
categories:
  - logbook
tags:
  - log
  - update
---

I have spent these two days preparing the environment where I am going to develop my PID algorithm to follow a line drawn on a F1 circuit with a car. In this post I intend to make a summary of the execution and development environment and the approach to the problem to be addressed.

## Problem

- **Goal**: Run a red line with an F1 car as accurately and quickly as possible.
- **Enviroment**: Formula 1 circuit implemented in Gazebo, accessible through a Python interface and on whose road a red line has been drawn to determine the path that the car must follow.
- **Car**: Robot with an architecture similar to a Formula 1 vehicle which is composed of two main elements:
  - **Sensors**: It has a BGR camera positioned on the left side of the front wing.
  - **Motors**: It has a motor that allows to define the vertical speed of the car and another one that allows to control the turning speed of the car. It could be said that it has an accelerator and a steering wheel that are controlled by a Python interface.

## Execution enviroment

The tool that will allow the creation of the execution environment of the algorithm to be developed is Robotics Academy, which in turn uses Gazebo as its main tool. Currently there are different ways of access to the tool:

- **Web Templates**: A web interface where the Gazebo circuit visualization environment is embedded, a code editor and a menu where algorithm execution parameters can be adjusted, among other functionalities. Recently there has been a web system running this tool, which can be accessed remotely, called [Unibotics](https://unibotics.org/).
- **ROS Templates**: Native tool execution environment. In this case the Gazebo execution environment would be running on a local machine together with the control algorithm.

It should be noted that the code and programming methodology of the algorithm changes depending on the environment in which it is developed. The peculiarities of both is something that will be clarified in later posts as needed.
                